Purva Chakravarti
CWID: 802344432
email id: purvachakravarti@csu.fullerton.edu
Date: 25th September 2015


Description of my program:

My Program has the following abilities to perform:
1. It takes values either in inches and pounds or in centimeters and kilograms.
2. It has a switch button to convert in/lbs to cm/kg and vice-versa.
3. It has a calculate button which on pressing calculates the BMI in lbs/in and in kg/m^2 and provides the same result approximately in both the cases.
4. It also shows the BMI value comes under which range along with its description
5. It also shows a chart of the ranges provided by the WHO on clicking the calculate button.
6. It also shows a picture fir the associated BMI range and description


The prospective and solution of the assignment has been completely met in  my program.

Use of the Program:
It can be used in calculating BMI in medical departments.


Code Implementation:
1. I have created the Main.storyboard by using different labels,switch,button,text boxes,images

2. I started coding in viewcontroller.h,where I have connected all the attributes of the storyboard

3. Then In ViewController.m I have implemented the actual coding.

4. I have also created a singleton class named as Person.m which imports Person.h

5. I have created two methods called inchToCm_lbsToKg and cmToInch_KgTolbs
 for converting purpose.

6. Also i created a sPerson instance of Person class so that i can use it in the view controller.m to make it singleton.

7. The methods i implemented in the Person.m are called in the viewcontroller.m by creating an object of the singleton class.

8. In view controller I have taken the values from the textbox,converted into double value and stored in a variable which I have initialised in my singleton class.

9. I have calculated the BMI using its formula.

10. I have added the ranges and connected the images as well which i have done by creating an object of UIImage class

This is the brief idea of how I have implemented the program

